# n8-game-development
I decided to go all-in on learning Java, so I am making a cross platform 2D block-breaker (think of the old Arknoid game) using the excellent libgdx open source gaming engine. I read "Java: A Beginner's Guide" (by Schildt) to get me started, then I did a few practice programs (yes I did start with a Hello World program). I was picking it up rapidly, so I figured why not just do something I've dreamed of since I was a child: make my own game! After doing some research I decided to use the libgdx open source game engine, because I wanted to be able to deploy my game on multiple platforms without having to write a bunch of platform specific code.

This is a work in progress, and it will be part of my portfolio as I seek employment in my new career.  I am trying very hard to keep the code maintainable, consistent, and well documented; BUT there are definitely parts that need some touching up.  I am not trying very hard at making the game computationally efficient, although I intend to do my best at that before I'm finished. It is a fairly 'light' game anyway, so efficiency isn't horribly important, but still it never hurts to make a program more efficient. I am being very attentive to memory leaks, and I'm confident you'll get no memory leaks if you run this game on your machine.

My overall goal in making this game was to teach myself Java. My secondary goal was to make a game that is fun to play and can be put on the android app store for anyone to try. The game is a simple block breaker style game where a ball bounces around the screen and you have to move your "paddle" across the bottom of the screen to bounce the ball back and hit all the blocks. I had the original NES Arknoid game in mind when I designed it. I added a twist: in my game you have two small flippers on either side of your paddle, which you can use to whack the ball as opposed to just letting it bounce off passively. Similar to other games like this, there are various weapons you can obtain to help you break all the blocks.

Much of the physics in my game is handled by libgdx's bundled box2d engine. box2d works very well, but it's definitely quirky, especially since I'm abusing it to some extent by forcing it to set various physics properties to zero, such as the ball's gravity and spin. In the many cases where the ball did not behave as intended, I just wrote my own code to make it work. For example, the ball tended to get stuck going perfectly horizontally at times.. I had to correct that. In addition to fixing quirks like I just mentioned, I also wrote custom code for things like: keeping the ball going a consistent speed (using right triangle geometry and vector-type algebra), and making the ball bounce off the paddle at varying angles depending on the incident angle, direction of travel, and how far from the center of the paddle the ball hits. I did that so the player has some additional control of the ball, which makes for more interesting and fun game play. I'm using JSON as my file format for loading levels, which works quite well.
